>> The Western lifestyle is
built on a fight or flight mode.
Everything is go, go, go.
This response disconnects
people from themselves.
>> It's about raising
people's awareness,
opening up their consciousness,
opening up their horizons.
>> My workday starts at 5:30
in the morning when I wake up.
And usually, I'm going
a million miles an hour
until I fall into bed.
>> I'm a type 2 diabetic,
diagnosed about a year ago.
>> I lost my mother
two years ago.
>> I got up in the morning one
day and was kind of just going,
oh, god, I really
need some help.
>> I was shaking and
struggling to breathe.
>> I've been to the doctor's,
and he gave me a percentage
of have a heart attack.
And his answer was 18%,
but it should be 1%.
>> I went in for a very standard
eye surgery that went horribly
wrong.
>> I've been having cameras
down, and off to the doctors,
and off to hospitals.
>> The depression that
just comes, I just, again,
just close off, and I
can't really function.
>> This place down in Thailand
says it can actually change
your head around, change
your inner space around.
>> I actually feel different.
It's so bizarre.
>> Heading for a retreat on an
island in the North China Sea,
Nick Knowles joins a group, who
are all seeking the antidote
for the strains of modern life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
How will the gang cope with a
completely new way of living?
>> I think that some
of the participants,
they didn't really know
what they were getting into.
>> It's almost cultish.
>> I think it's going
to be a challenge.
>> Will 28 days of detox and
alternative therapies be enough
to change their lives?
>> This is one kick ass detox.
>> Welcome to Thailand.
>> Previously on "The Retreat."
>> We've arrived.
>> We've lost the camera
crew because we've also lost
the camera equipment, so we're
working on this little camera
for the moment and maybe
doing that tomorrow, as well.
>> Yesterday, when we came in,
we got given a program of what
we got to do.
>> Two colema per day, so you're
going to clean your colon two
times per day, spirulina,
chlorella, alfalfa, moringa,
wheatgrass.
>> It's quite intense.
>> So this is like your food.
>> For long, which I didn't
think it was going to be.
>> And they're going to take
some blood, and then, I believe,
a chest X-ray afterwards.
So getting very exciting.
>> I think a lot of them
are scared right now.
>> I just don't fancy having
the cheap stuff in my [BLEEP]..
I mean, it's as simple
as that, really.
>> They didn't really know
what they were getting into.
>> It's day one of their fast,
and the gang has a grueling week
of not eating ahead
to test their resolve.
>> They can expect headaches.
They can expect to be tired
but mostly very hungry.
>> Good morning.
We were given these
little hand cams
to kind of record for
anything that we want
to say or feel like saying.
>> Good morning.
It's 6:30, the 5th.
We're going in now.
We're going to now spend the
rest of the week on a new diet,
I suppose.
It's to clean our bodies out.
>> Every day includes
a detox regime,
and the gang meet
to discuss tactics.
>> Morning.
>> How are we this morning?
>> A little well.
>> Hi, Maggie.
Good morning.
How are you feeling?
>> I had a really good
night's sleep, actually,
so I'm feeling way better.
>> Good morning, Kathy.
How are you, princess?
>> Fine, and you?
[LAUGHTER]
>> Milton, how are
you, sweetheart?
>> I'm great.
Had loads of sleep.
Feel much better.
Walked into town about
4 o'clock this morning.
>> Partied.
>> Partied, had a little
few beers, a bit of pool,
of snooker.
>> The team seems like--
the first day, they were
all doing their own thing.
And now, they're starting
to share with each other,
and I think Billy is really
helping out with that.
>> Morning, Nick.
>> Morning, morning.
>> Come to join the party?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> The detox party.
>> Colonical detox party.
>> I have a pumping
headache since yesterday.
>> Do you want to have a
look at the nice ingredients?
There's a detox drink there.
That's the hass, and
there's the measurements.
And obviously, that is
the glass we fill it in.
>> And we don't want to talk
about what that little thing is.
>> No, the little thing would
be put up somewhere like that.
>> Do you put the
water in the fridge?
>> --loads of drops in the box.
>> As well as the regime of
supplements to speed the detox,
it includes a psyllium drink to
aid digestion while not eating.
There's a man, used
to drink in pints.
>> That's us clear now until
8:30 when you have to take two
supplements and two chompers.
>> I didn't get all that bit.
>> These ones here are my mesua.
>> That's all right.
>> They're doing fine.
I thought they were going
to be more grumpy than that.
The only grumpy one is Nick.
>> Did you do your
homework, by the way?
Did you read about your colema?
>> Yeah.
>> I've only got the little bit.
[LAUGHTER]
You've got an hour and
a half to read it now.
>> You can have a
cappuccino, a latte.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Day one.
I just want to let
you know that Milton's
going to be on a different
program than you.
He's not going to
be fasting today.
We're going to make him do
a longer pre-cleanse just
to be safe.
He has all the chances
to control and reverse
his diabetes, so we're going
to do it the proper way.
We're treating
Milton in a way that
is different from
Western practice.
Yes, this is true.
And the Western world,
the Western medicine, they
don't know about this.
They're not trained for this.
They're trained
to treat patients
with invasive surgery, which
we need a lot of the time.
I'm not saying we don't
need conventional medicine.
We do.
A lot of people are sick.
They have pain.
They need painkillers.
But here, that's not what we do.
So how do you feel this morning
waking up on this first day
where there will be no meal?
>> I'm fine.
>> Fine.
>> I was quite
bothered about that.
I was very headachy last
night and through the night
and this morning.
>> Yeah, withdrawn symptoms.
Some of you smoke,
I think, yeah?
>> Yeah.
>> You quit?
>> Who else smokes?
OK, so this is the
most difficult part.
>> Don't tell my folks.
It's a top secret.
[LAUGHTER]
>> The nicotine will be in
your system for about two,
three days.
It's the first day of the fast.
You're grumpy.
You regret doing this.
You're waiting for that
meal that will not come,
so it's difficult. The
first day is difficult.
Here, there's a restaurant, so
they can see and smell the food.
That's also very difficult.
Expect some headaches.
People that drink a
lot of coffee also,
expect to be a little bit
tired, but mostly hungry.
The body is going to burn
the sugar inside of you.
You still have
reserves, but that's not
going to be for so long.
It's going to be just today.
And then the body goes
into another mode.
The liver is going to
produce ketones to nourish
the brain and other tissues.
So today, don't expect too much.
You might be a
little bit grumpy.
>> No, we're not.
[LAUGHTER]
>> But it's perfectly normal.
Just embrace it.
Usually, the thinnest people
have the most difficulties
when it comes to being tired.
Because you have less fat, you
have less food for your body,
so usually, you get a
little bit more tired.
But the more fat you got,
the more energy you have.
>> Why'd you look
at me for that?
>> Yeah, you're just
looking at the sky, are you?
>> Happened to be looking in
that direction, that's all.
>> Yeah, you guys are
going to come to me.
Let's go for a run.
Today, we're going
to do some colema.
>> Yes.
>> Exciting.
>> You're possibly the only
person who does get excited when
you do it.
>> But first, before
they can do the colema,
Dominique gives
them a masterclass.
>> In your room,
you have a kettle.
You fill it up with water,
and you boil it, OK?
And then you prepare
for the colema.
>> Let's go.
This is the colema tip.
The part that has holes is the
part that goes inside of you.
There's a side with no
holes, side with holes.
And then you will connect,
with this connector here,
this tube to this tube.
So you need to plug it in, OK?
It's going to be
hard, and it's good
that it's hard
because you don't want
it to fall during the
colema, so this is good, OK?
This will go inside
the colema board
and then the tube will go
outside of the colema board.
So there is a hole.
You plug it in and plug
your tube, and that's it.
All done, OK?
A little trick, I like
to have my butt cleaner
here close to me.
>> This is ridiculous.
>> And by massaging, you're
going to move that solidified
food that is inside of
you that you want out, OK?
And it's going to be released
with the water after, OK?
If you feel like you have a bump
somewhere, like a little ball,
that might be a blockage.
Sometimes, it takes
days for it to come out.
I've seen balls coming out
after eight days of fasts.
>> Sounds special if your
balls are going to come out.
>> Big surprise.
>> Are you scared?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, frightened.
>> I was frightened
the first time.
Yeah.
>> I expected something to suck
it out, but it's all gravity,
isn't it?
>> All gravity, yes.
But it's more gentle for you.
It's more gentle for you
than having the machine
with the pressure.
Definitely.
And then you're alone.
You don't have
somebody with you.
It's more private.
>> I feel real rough,
so maybe Jules?
>> I'm out.
>> If you want to--
>> Why does he keep--
>> He's been asking
me to help him.
>> In the room?
>> Well, you live
next door, don't you?
>> I think you have a
door in between your room.
>> You're not seriously
expecting him to help you during
this.
>> Well, he could talk to me.
It'd make me feel relaxed.
>> I wouldn't want to--
I don't even want to
be on the same campus
whilst you're doing it, let
alone in the same building.
That's--
>> All right.
But if I do panic, you'd be
there for me, wouldn't you?
>> Not really, not
during this, no.
>> Not when you're in mid-flow.
>> Well, if I'm in mid-flow,
I won't be panicking.
I'll be happy, wouldn't I?
>> I'll be there on the
other side of the door.
>> All right, note to self,
going into a detox after
Christmas and New Year's,
maybe not a good idea.
I definitely think
it would have been
good to do a week of healthy
raw food and no partying
before starting this.
This is one kick ass detox.
>> Let's just get on with it and
not talk to each other about it
ever again.
>> No, OK.
>> Don't tell anybody or the
lads on the site that we've done
this, either.
>> Well, it's all right
to talk about this.
If we help each other out,
we won't tell anybody.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Yesterday, I
showed them a movie.
Not all of them went.
We're missing some people.
Nick disappeared.
Some of them are tired,
so I think that we're
going to rethink the schedule.
It's OK.
Some of them are not young.
>> This could be the first
generation of children
in the United States that
lives less than its parents.
>> We spend $2.2 trillion
a year on health care,
over five times more
than the Defense budget.
>> So maybe I'll just
give them the movies,
and they can watch it in their
room or maybe we can watch them
later during the month.
It's no problem, as long as they
watch those movies because it
talks about their issues.
>> At the morning meeting, last
night's film provokes a spirited
discussion about what we eat.
>> Because you got
this diabetes, yeah?
>> Yeah.
>> You saw that film last night.
>> Do you think you will revert
your diabetes to turn it back?
>> 150%.
That's what I'm here to do.
Get my head down
and see if it works.
>> Well, it's just going to
take a little bit of time.
>> It's going to
take time, yeah.
>> So when you go back
home, will you eat the raw--
>> Yeah, I will.
>> A little bit early
to say, yeah, ain't it?
We've only just started.
We're only just
started into the--
>> I will.
>> You never saw the film.
The film actually
showed the people
that have had diabetes have
gone on this root factor of food
and everything,
and their diabetes
has turned right around.
>> Yeah, yeah.
Was that for everybody?
>> I reckon it's--
>> Because that's a big claim
if you're saying that now,
that basically anybody who has
diabetes goes on a root diet
and--
>> It would be diabetes type 2.
>> Type 2, yeah.
That's what I've got.
>> Anybody on type 2 diabetes
will be cured if they go--
>> Can reverse it.
>> Can reverse it, yeah.
>> You can control it and
then reverse it if you stick
to the diet.
>> Yeah.
>> But it's not a diet.
It's a lifestyle.
The Western diseases,
they're diet-related.
If you put the wrong
fuel in your body,
you will break your engine,
and I repeat that all the time.
And it's not just meat.
It's all the processed
food and all the sugar.
It's not rocket science
when you think about it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You see one film about
how it's bad to eat meat,
and then all of a sudden,
everyone's evangelical about how
to eat meat.
And everybody's got an
agenda when they make a film.
When vegetarians make a
film, they've got an agenda.
When meat eaters make a
So you can't just go,
I've just seen a film,
and it just says meat's
bad, and there you go.
>> They make it.
They tell you what
they want you to hear.
To be honest, I
didn't go and watch it
because I knew what it
was going to be about.
I want to make my own mind up.
It's almost cultish
where they try and--
>> It's a little bit, ain't it?
>> --almost brainwash you.
>> So they say you've got
to listen to both sides.
So what you should
do is actually watch
a film about being
vegetarian, like the film
they ran last night,
and then watch a film
about how good meat is for you.
>> Yeah.
>> Watch both.
But they're not showing
any films about how good
meat for you.
>> Are you at a stage where
it's making you want to give up?
>> Yeah.
I'm definitely quite negative
about the whole process
because I'm, I guess,
questioning the process.
>> Yeah.
>> And that ultimately makes
me think, why am I doing it?
>> Pausing for thought for
the first time in 48 hours,
Nick and Julian are just
realizing that the fasting,
and colemas, supplements, and
yoga are not going to let up
for seven whole days.
>> We've decided that
what we're going to do is
because it's a bit monotonous,
there's a hotel up the road just
around the Bay.
And so me and him are going
to go and sit by the pool
because neither of
us have got anything
to do for the next two hours
because we've been excused yoga.
So we're going to go
and sit by the pool,
not drink anything,
not eat anything.
We're just going to
a different location
just to try and get away
from the conspiracy theory.
>> Changes because the rest--
>> Yeah.
>> Come on then.
>> Next up, the colema.
[TOILET FLUSHES]
>> First of all, I'm going to
put the tube into coconut oil
to make it a little bit smoother
for when it enters my butt.
Now, I shall put this
through a little hole in here
and join it up.
>> What happened yesterday?
I heard you had some problems.
>> I fell off the
surfboard three times.
When we say a surfboard,
we mean this plastic plate
with a hole in it that's
supposed to sit on the toilet.
Now, this is the
bit where I shall
proceed to go on the board.
But first of all,
I'm going to put
a bit of the oil on my own butt
to make it a bit more lubricant.
It's not a bad little number.
Me, in my wisdom, I put
the surfboard that way,
so it kept falling off.
I am now going to take
the clip off and let
the water into my bottom.
And I forgot to add the coffee.
Obviously, when I
got comfortable,
nearly got there,
put the tube there,
it come off the other
bit, too, because I
won't get it near enough.
The result, what I've
seen that's come out,
has been absolutely brilliant.
Now, I just look forward to it.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> What a surprise.
>> Well, I don't
mind a bit of it.
>> No, that's--
>> No, you know me.
>> That's not right.
That's more information
than I needed right there.
>> Well, I feel 100%.
[LAUGHTER]
You know that moments when
they say, oh, I'm busting,
and they go, I can feel what
they feel like they're busting.
It's a lovely feeling.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Maybe I should sit down and
go to the toilet more often.
>> Do we have to have these
conversations with everybody?
Couldn't you do that on a
one-to-one basis with Billy?
Because I'm never going
to get that image out
of my head for the rest of
my life, and I don't know how
I'm going to manage with that.
>> Yeah, how are you doing it?
You all right?
Because I come to you--
>> I'm doing fine.
Move on to the next person.
[LAUGHTER]
>> With Billy having
conquered his fears,
the others remain tight
lipped about their own.
>> We've started the program.
We've had several drinks
and stuff I haven't really
liked too much at the moment.
>> I will honestly
say I was terrified.
>> I must confess, I'm not
jumping for joy at the prospect
of washing any dirty
linen in public.
>> And I kept thinking, are
you doing the right thing?
At your age, should you be
doing something like this?
>> You're having trouble?
>> Mhm-mhm.
>> Tell me about it.
>> I think the
first colema I did,
I think it went relatively well.
But ever since then,
I'm struggling with it
because I find that as
the water's going in,
I obviously stop it.
>> Yes.
>> Then I'm doing the massage,
and then I'm getting incredible
stomach cramps.
Try and put some more
water in because I
know I've got to move
it around, but then I
think when I'm
expelling, I think
it's just water coming out.
I've tried re-massaging
and nothing seems to come.
And I'm a bit like Kathy.
I haven't examined
what's in there,
but it seems to be mostly
fluid, as opposed to anything--
>> Solid.
>> So it would only be the first
day you would have had solids.
OK.
You might have blockages there.
It's totally normal.
>> Yeah, I think we've got an
awful lot of blockages there.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Colon-- colonic--
colomo-- colonoscopies--
or colonic colema.
>> Colema.
>> Colema, they've
been quite daunting.
Day one and two
were a bit tricky.
And I'm quite proud
to say this on camera,
I've never actually ever stuck
anything up my bottom before,
so this was a first, and I think
I'm actually quite enjoying them
now.
>> The women seem to take to the
whole colony thing reasonably
easily.
>> Yeah.
>> And the guys just
really don't like it,
with the exception of Billy.
But then Billy's not
a normal human being.
>> One person, in particular,
who obviously will remain
anonymous, but otherwise, he
goes by the name of Billy,
he seems to love it.
>> I don't like it.
I don't like talking about it.
I don't like the
conversations we've
had around the table about it.
None of that.
>> I don't know if it's a
Northern Southern hemisphere
thing that's--
but yeah, he's really taking
to it, and he's enjoying it.
I believe he let the film
crew in to sample it.
I haven't seen much of the
crew around lately, actually,
after that.
>> But it's made a big
difference to me already this
week.
>> It's been great.
It's been ups and
downs, but I think
I'm feeling the best I've
kind of felt in a while.
>> No.
>> What are you up to, Jules?
>> Popping my last--
>> Chomper.
>> Chomper, whatever that is.
>> Chomper, yellow one.
And now we're
going to have the--
>> I did mine run the other
way, but it doesn't matter.
>> So I think I'm the
complete opposite to Billy.
I'm not enjoying
one second of it.
I'm disliking the tablets.
I'm disliking the drinks.
I just-- pretty much
everything about it,
I just don't like it at all.
>> Julian is having a
little bit of trouble with--
a lot of trouble with
the whole process.
I think that he reminds me of
many people that come here.
They come to join their friends.
They come because they want
to experience something.
I think he just wanted to
go on an adventure with Nick
and Billy.
And he wanted to
try something new,
but he never expected this
process to be so hard.
>> Probably feeling a bit
grumpy because I got sunburnt
yesterday.
>> Yeah, we got sunburnt.
No, it was just the two of us.
To be honest, we got
badly sunburnt yesterday.
>> And it's hurting immensely.
And even lying on the
board is hurting immensely.
>> Morning.
>> I see that there's a couple
of lobsters in the group.
>> Yes.
>> That's fresh from our
little aloe vera garden here.
Just blasted that all
over the red spot.
There you go.
>> You are really--
well, I didn't realize--
>> Pretty burnt down here.
[ALL EXCLAIM]
>> Wait, I've got to see.
[LAUGHTER]
>> That's looking pretty burnt.
>> I'll cut the whole
plant down for you.
>> Yeah.
>> That's pretty good.
>> That's worse
>> Put it on your stomach.
It's very good.
>> All right.
>> Holy-- no, it's
got worse, actually.
Oh, that's bad.
[GROANS]
>> It's all on me.
>> You can scratch it like
that, and then you'll get more
of the juice with your nails.
>> I think you need-- have
you got any more for the boys?
>> I'll cut the tree down.
[LAUGHTER]
>> The group is doing well.
We had some tears again.
Claire, she's opening up.
>> I had ThetaHealing yesterday.
It was very nice.
I cried quite a
lot, but it was--
I suppose the best
way I can describe
it is it's like asking for
help from the universe.
Is that right?
>> And she is a channel.
>> And she is a channel
to you, to the universe.
And it's all, again,
very positive,
clearing out the negative
thoughts and feelings
and basically telling you
that you can turn the page
and you don't have to be
the actor in your old movie.
>> Yes.
>> And you can start afresh.
So that was really nice.
And I think she uses a stone.
>> Same thing with Kathy.
She feels unblocked.
They have more energy.
They want to go to yoga.
They want to go for a walk.
They want to talk
about the detox.
So the bad days are gone now.
So this is very good.
So we can expect some laughs and
maybe more tears, but we'll see.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Next time on "The Retreat."
>> Body can go further than
you probably think, yeah?
>> That's all we have to eat a
day is a bowl of watery broth?
>> It's been a nice walk.
We're nearly there.
Probably got about
another 15 minutes' walk.
>> Actually, it's not
changed in one week, OK?
>> You don't think-- you don't
think it's changed in one week?
>> We follow up the
patient at least one month,
but normally we check
at three months.
>> So let's see the results
in six days of eating healthy.
>> But there's a new
guy today, and I just--
it's just not me.
It's just not my thing.
>> I've never been able to speak
about Emma to anyone without
actually really breaking down
in lots and lots of tears.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Before attempting any of the
detox techniques or practices
demonstrated in "The Retreat,"
you are advised to seek out
your doctor's advice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]